#English #Language #Literature 


# 1
- She saw a stranger child
- She is standing at the sink
- She has her hands deep in suds
- She was overwhelmed



# 2

The writer uses a semantic field of unfamiliarity in "unfamiliar... muddle... overgrown... ancient" in order to describe the garden as menacing and dangerous. The adjective unfamiliar in conjunction with the innocence and vulnerability of "children" creates a sense of unfamiliar danger which builds tension as we are worried for the child's safety among the unfamiliarity of the garden. The writer does this in order to worry the reader as we fear the unknown and children getting hurt. As via the writers intended effect, the reader feels incredibly nervous and fearful of the unknown garden and we worry for the child's safety.

The writer uses alliteration in "chunks of cement, choking it" in order to worry the reader. This denotes that there is cement in a garden that is "choking" the ivy. The personification of the ivy builds tension as we begin to worry that the garden really is alive, as we have been put under the effects of fatigue prior in the text, and the concrete "choking it" builds tension as it creates a sense of hostility and the children being out there emphasises this as they are vulnerable and cannot do anything to defend themselves from the dangerous alive, artificial garden. The alliteration of /c/ creates a chlostorphobic sense as all of the words use the same compressed /c/ sound so close together which makes the reader uncomfotable .The writer does this inorder to create a sense of uneasiness and fear that builds tension as we wonder what will happen next. The reader feels this tension and begins to become nervous and uncomfortable and begin to wonder for the childs safety.

# 3

Towards the beginning of the text, the writer begins with a one clause sentence that tells you what happens later in the text. This builds tension as the reader is on the look out for the "stranger child" as we are told that they exist but are told nothing about them other than they are a stranger and Rosie only "saw" them - she didn't talk or interact with the stranger child in any way. This interests the reader as it creates a sense of mystery and results in the reader creating questions that they want answering; who is this child? Why did she only see the child? The writer does this inorder to confuse the reader and to intrigue them as they want to know who and what this "stranger child" is. Because of this, the writer feels confused and intrigued as they mut find out more about the mysterious "stranger child".

In the middle, the focus shifts from Rosie and the "stranger child" to the garden. This is significant as it not only: provides us with time to forget that Rosie is tired but it builds on the sense of mystery that was initialized at the beginning. The garden description creates a sense of fear through the description of various unfamiliar things which also worries the reader. At this point in the text, the reader is at the peak of their paranoia and are now incredibly worried about anything because of the shift from someone who is tired and incapable because of it to a dangerous overgrown garden.

At the end, the tension is relieved as we find out that the stranger child is a halloucination. This doesn't fully end the tension or sense of mystery  as it instead restarts it as we now get sense of mystery and tension from the childs dissapearence and not existance. The 

# 4 

While I agree that it was relatively obvious she was part of Rosie's imagination, it was still surprising once it disappeared because it was still relatively unexpected.

Towards the start of the extract, the writer uses a semantic field of fatigue with "standing... overwhelmed... Tired... long drive... gazed vaguely". These lexicons connote fatigue as they are each either: something you would do if you were tired or something that would tire you. This semantic field is significant as it links to her hallucination of the child as when you are fatigued, you begin to hallucinate - see things that are not there - and that is exactly what I believe the child is. This is also referenced at the start with the child referenced at the end, this gives us time to forget - a symptom of fatigue - that she is fatigued and, therefore, be able to understand that this is a hallucination if we ourselves do not forget. The writer does this in order to lead up to the climax, the reveal that the child was a hallucination, which creates intrigue for the rest of the novel as this extract is from the beginning of the novel. As the writers intent, this intrigues the reader and creates a sense of mystery that they desperately want to rid of. This suggests that the reader would not be surprised as we are told at the start about the fatigue and - therefore - fatigue.

The writer tries to subvert these expectations shortly after by saying that "old glass that blunted the image". The denotes to the glass blurring everything that is outside, this could suggest that the child could be there but it's difficult to tell because of the limited concrete visibility. It connotes with confusion which links to the confusion that this quote causes which leads to the reader juxtaposing their expectations. The "glass" being "old" emphasises this point as it tells us that the glass is unreliable and most likely broken - or not working the way it should.  The writer creates these juxtaposing expectations in the readers mind in order to emulate the feelings of confusion caused by the fatigue - mentioned prior - that Rosie feels. Because of this, the reader feels Rosie's confusion, emulated, and are surprised by the child's appearance.