#English #Language 


You need to refer only to **Source A** from lines 42 to 57.

How does the writer use language to describe how the writer feels about his adventure?

The writer uses a simile and double entendre when he compares a "battleship" to a "bathtub toy". There is a double entendre in this simile because it both suggests that he is high up so the battle ship is small and quite pathetic but it also suggests that he feels a sense of freedom and escapism as the noun "battleship" connotes violence and death and the juxtaposing noun "bathtub toy" connotes innocence and fun; these juxtaposing ideas suggest that his urban exploration is a tool for escapism that temporarily irradicates all negative feelings - such as the ones connoted with the "battleship". The writer has done this to show the reader how freeing and rewarding urban exploration is and the encourage them to do it; he attempts to tell the reader that his experience with exploration has been liberating and a beautiful form of escapism. Via the writers intended effect, the reader feels encouraged to give urban exploration an attempt in the hope that they can feel the feelings of liberation and peace that the writer does.

The writer also uses imagery in the metaphor "just rows of lights". This imagery is used to paint a beautiful image of the lights that can be seen below the streets of London; this is done to encourage the reader to explore, to tell the reader that there is beauty in urban exploration. The metaphor when he calls "buses" and "cars" a "row of lights" is significant as it emphasises how high up he is; this in conjunction with the imagery communicates to the reader that if you want the best experience with urban exploration, you cant just go half way - you have to commit. The writer does this in order to encourage the reader to go urban exploring; he creates this beautiful image that would encourage them and he simultaneously tells them not to half bake it if they want an experience like his.

The writer says that this was "the first time in his life [he] looked at London... heard only wind". This emphasises how high up he is as he is unable to hear all of the loud cars and buses - mentioned prior - that were below him. There is also the usage of the sense of sight in "looked" and hearing in "heard" which also emphasises his height as it suggests that he is so high up that his hearing is useless as there is nothing to hear, there is only a beautiful image of London to see.